docs: add demo for workload secrets (#1045)
edgelesssys/contrast: docs/docs/examples/mysql.md

Reviewer: Do we need a disclaimer here, mentioning:

1. Risk of data loss without backups.
2. Workload owner vs data owner concerns.
3. Security concerns with unauthenticated encryption, PBKDF2 defaults, etc.

Reviewer 2: Although, we might want those disclaimers in the general architecture/feature description and likely only refer to them here, right?

Reviewer: - (1) is a _safety_ concern that's specific to persistency and (3) is a security concern specific to this demo. I would put at least a small note here to remind people that they're looking at a demo, not a prod reference architecture. 
- (2) is described on the workload secrets docs and should be linked to from here.

Reviewer: I like the disclaimer!

They will have to be filled in manually.
If you don't know the correct values use `{"BootloaderVersion":255,"TEEVersion":255,"SNPVersion":255,"MicrocodeVersion":255}` and observe the real values in the error messages in the following steps. This should only be done in a secure environment. Note that the values will differ between CPU models.
:::
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="k3s-qemu-tdx" label="Bare metal (TDX)">
```sh
contrast generate --reference-values k3s-qemu-tdx deployment/
```
:::note[Missing TCB values]
On bare-metal TDX, `contrast generate` is unable to fill in the `MinimumTeeTcbSvn` and `MrSeam` TCB values as they can vary between platforms.
They will have to be filled in manually.
If you don't know the correct values use `ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff` and `000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000` respectively and observe the real values in the error messages in the following steps. This should only be done in a secure environment.
:::
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note[Runtime class and Initializer]

The deployment YAML shipped for this demo is already configured to be used with Contrast.

> A [runtime class](https://docs.edgeless.systems/contrast/components/runtime) `contrast-cc-<platform>-<runtime-hash>`

Author: This should also be patched for the Emojivoto docs.

for the load balancer to be created and the Coordinator being available.

```sh
coordinator=$(kubectl get svc coordinator -o=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
echo "The user API of your Contrast Coordinator is available at $coordinator:1313"
contrast set -c "${coordinator}:1313" deployment/
```

The CLI will use the reference values from the manifest to attest the Coordinator deployment
during the TLS handshake. If the connection succeeds, it's ensured that the Coordinator
deployment hasn't been tampered with.

:::warning
On bare metal, the [coordinator policy hash](components/policies.md#platform-differences) must be overwritten using `--coordinator-policy-hash`.
:::

### Deploy MySQL

Now that the coordinator has a manifest set, which defines the MySQL deployment as an allowed workload,
we can deploy the application:

```sh
kubectl apply -f deployment/
```

:::note[Persistent workload secrets]

During the initialization process of the workload pod, the Contrast Initializer
sends an attestation report to the Coordinator and retrieves a randomly
generated workload secret, seeded with the workload secret ID specified in the

> manifest, and writes it to a `volumeMount`.

Reviewer: I think we should emphasize here that this is a secure-memory-backed mount.

configuration over the established TLS channel. The CLI will store this information, namely the root
certificate of the mesh (`mesh-ca.pem`) and the history of manifests, into the `verify/` directory.
In addition, the policies referenced in the manifest history are also written into the same directory.

:::warning
On bare metal, the [coordinator policy hash](components/policies.md#platform-differences) must be overwritten using `--coordinator-policy-hash`.
:::

### Auditing the manifest history and artifacts

In the next step, the Coordinator configuration that was written by the `verify` command needs to be audited.
A user of the application should inspect the manifest and the referenced policies. They could delegate
this task to an entity they trust.

### Connecting to the application

To access the MySQL database from the command line, expose the service on a public IP address via a LoadBalancer service:

```sh
mysqlIP=$(kubectl get svc mysql-svc -o=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
echo "MySQL is available at the IP  $mysqlIP."
```

Using the `mysql` command line interface, you can connect to the database as the

> root user with the password specified in the deployment YAML (`password`).

Reviewer: I think this setup does not sound ideal, even for a demo. Could we maybe mention the service mesh here to ensure only Contrast deployments can access the MySQL server?

```sh
mysql -h $mysqlIP -u root -p
```

:::warning
Avoid including the MySQL root user password directly in the Kubernetes
configuraiton files to prevent exposing sensitive credentials. Use [Kubernetes
Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) in
production to securely manage and reference the password instead.
:::

## Updating the deployment

Because the workload secret is bound to the workload itself and not to an
individual pod, once the pod restarts, the `cryptsetup` init container can
deterministically generate the same key again and open the already partitioned
LUKS device.

> For example, after making changes to the deployment files, the runtime policies

Reviewer: The advice here is not correct. If you change the deployment, you're likely to get a different policy hash, resulting in a different workload secret. This is where the [`WorkloadSecretID`](https://github.com/edgelesssys/contrast/blob/55cb03624be5271088b145fbc4a547cad096afbf/internal/manifest/manifest.go#L36) comes in, which may be, well, underdocumented right now.

Reviewer: Sorry, I was mistaken about the workload secret seed. Maybe change 

> the workload secret is bound to the workload itself

to something like

> the workload secret is derived from the resource name

and link to the architecture page for more details. Those details are missing right now, but should be added asap.

encrypted MySQL database using the Contrast [workload
secret](../architecture/secrets.md#workload-secrets).**

[MySQL](https://mysql.com) is an open-source database used to organize data into
tables and quickly retrieve information about its content. All of the data in a
MySQL database is stored in the `/var/lib/mysql` directory. In this example, we
use the workload secret to setup an encrypted LUKS mount for the
`/var/lib/mysql` directory to easily deploy an application with encrypted
persistent storage using Contrast.

The resources provided in this demo are designed for educational purposes and
shouldn't be used in a production environment without proper evaluation. When
working with persistent storage, regular backups are recommended in order to
prevent data loss. For confidential applications, please also refer to the
[security considerations](../architecture/security-considerations.md). Also be
aware of the differences in security implications of the workload secrets for
the data owner and the workload owner. For more details, see the [Workload
Secrets](../architecture/secrets.md#workload-secrets) documentation.

## Prerequisites

- Installed Contrast CLI

> - A running Kubernetes cluster with support for confidential containers, either on [AKS](../getting-started/cluster-setup.md) or on [bare metal](../getting-started/bare-metal.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A running Kubernetes cluster with support for confidential containers, either on [AKS](../getting-started/cluster-setup.md) or on [bare metal](../getting-started/bare-metal.md)
```

For consistency, no punctuation for both bullets (which are not full sentences).

configuration over the established TLS channel. The CLI will store this information, namely the root
certificate of the mesh (`mesh-ca.pem`) and the history of manifests, into the `verify/` directory.
In addition, the policies referenced in the manifest history are also written into the same directory.

:::warning
On bare metal, the [coordinator policy hash](components/policies.md#platform-differences) must be overwritten using `--coordinator-policy-hash`.
:::

### Auditing the manifest history and artifacts

In the next step, the Coordinator configuration that was written by the `verify` command needs to be audited.
A user of the application should inspect the manifest and the referenced policies. They could delegate
this task to an entity they trust.

### Connecting to the application

Other confidential containers can securely connect to the MySQL server via the
[Service Mesh](../components/service-mesh.md). The configured `mysql-client`
deployment connects to the MySQL server and inserts test data into a table. To
view the logs of the `mysql-client` deployment, use the following commands:

```sh

> mysqlClient=$(kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=mysql-client -o=jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
> kubectl logs ${mysqlClient}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/name=mysql-client -c mysql-backend
```
should work and is more concise.

The resources provided in this demo are designed for educational purposes and
shouldn't be used in a production environment without proper evaluation. When
working with persistent storage, regular backups are recommended in order to
prevent data loss. For confidential applications, please also refer to the
[security considerations](../architecture/security-considerations.md). Also be
aware of the differences in security implications of the workload secrets for
the data owner and the workload owner. For more details, see the [Workload
Secrets](../architecture/secrets.md#workload-secrets) documentation.

## Prerequisites

- Installed Contrast CLI
- A running Kubernetes cluster with support for confidential containers, either on [AKS](../getting-started/cluster-setup.md) or on [bare metal](../getting-started/bare-metal.md).
- Installed MySQL CLI

## Steps to deploy MySQL with Contrast

### Download the deployment files

The MySQL deployment files are part of the Contrast release. You can download them by running:

```sh
curl -fLO https://github.com/edgelesssys/contrast/releases/latest/download/mysql-demo.yml --create-dirs --output-dir deployment
```

### Deploy the Contrast runtime

> Contrast depends on a [custom Kubernetes RuntimeClass](../components/runtime.md),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contrast depends on a [custom Kubernetes `RuntimeClass`](../components/runtime.md),
```

which needs to be installed to the cluster initially.
This consists of a `RuntimeClass` resource and a `DaemonSet` that performs installation on worker nodes.
This step is only required once for each version of the runtime.
It can be shared between Contrast deployments.

<Tabs queryString="platform">
<TabItem value="aks-clh-snp" label="AKS" default>
```sh
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/edgelesssys/contrast/releases/latest/download/runtime-aks-clh-snp.yml
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="k3s-qemu-snp" label="Bare metal (SEV-SNP)">
```sh
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/edgelesssys/contrast/releases/latest/download/runtime-k3s-qemu-snp.yml
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="k3s-qemu-tdx" label="Bare metal (TDX)">
```sh
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/edgelesssys/contrast/releases/latest/download/runtime-k3s-qemu-tdx.yml
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Deploy the Contrast Coordinator

Deploy the Contrast Coordinator, comprising a single replica deployment and a

> LoadBalancer service, into your cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`LoadBalancer` service, into your cluster:
```

:::

### Set the manifest

Configure the coordinator with a manifest. It might take up to a few minutes
for the load balancer to be created and the Coordinator being available.

```sh
coordinator=$(kubectl get svc coordinator -o=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
echo "The user API of your Contrast Coordinator is available at $coordinator:1313"
contrast set -c "${coordinator}:1313" deployment/
```

The CLI will use the reference values from the manifest to attest the Coordinator deployment
during the TLS handshake. If the connection succeeds, it's ensured that the Coordinator
deployment hasn't been tampered with.

:::warning
On bare metal, the [coordinator policy hash](components/policies.md#platform-differences) must be overwritten using `--coordinator-policy-hash`.
:::

### Deploy MySQL

Now that the coordinator has a manifest set, which defines the MySQL deployment as an allowed workload,
we can deploy the application:

```sh
kubectl apply -f deployment/
```

:::note[Persistent workload secrets]

During the initialization process of the workload pod, the Contrast Initializer

> sends an attestation report to the Coordinator and retrieves a randomly
> generated workload secret, seeded with the workload secret ID specified in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sends an attestation report to the Coordinator and receives a workload secret
derived from the Coordinator's secret seed and the workload secret ID specified in the
```

In addition, the policies referenced in the manifest history are also written into the same directory.

:::warning
On bare metal, the [coordinator policy hash](components/policies.md#platform-differences) must be overwritten using `--coordinator-policy-hash`.
:::

### Auditing the manifest history and artifacts

In the next step, the Coordinator configuration that was written by the `verify` command needs to be audited.
A user of the application should inspect the manifest and the referenced policies. They could delegate
this task to an entity they trust.

### Connecting to the application

To access the MySQL database from the command line, expose the service on a public IP address via a LoadBalancer service:

```sh
mysqlIP=$(kubectl get svc mysql-svc -o=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
echo "MySQL is available at the IP  $mysqlIP."
```

Using the `mysql` command line interface, you can connect to the database as the
root user with the password specified in the deployment YAML (`password`).

```sh
mysql -h $mysqlIP -u root -p
```

:::warning
Avoid including the MySQL root user password directly in the Kubernetes

> configuraiton files to prevent exposing sensitive credentials. Use [Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration files to prevent exposing sensitive credentials. Use [Kubernetes
```

Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) in

> production to securely manage and reference the password instead.

Reviewer: Having the password in any yaml, secret or deployment, leaks it to the infrastructure. Without the service mesh, the DB is exposed and the encryption is moot. If we can't force mTLS in MySQL, we should only advertise it with the service mesh!
